So we continue to have this stubborn
problem with the separate style sheets,
where we have our standard style
sheet of unlayered styles,
we have layered styles inside
of the addme style sheet.
Even if I were to do something like put
all of these styles that are here inside
of my style.css, put them in a layered
style, we are still not gonna be able to
get that addme style to come through as
long as it's in a separate style sheet.
So what I'm going to do now is,
I'm gonna copy the addme.css,
just highlight all of it and copy,
make sure that that being important
is off of the color white.
And we had added at one
point along the way.
And I'm going to go scroll to the bottom
of my standard style sheet here.
And I'm going to put in @layer addme,
it's gonna still be the name,
we'll put in the double brackets,
and then I'll paste all of
my styles inside of addme.
And you'll notice that my errors here
in VSCode are gonna continue to add up.
These are all related to layers once
again, and VSCode doesn't know about them,
that's why it's giving me
all these errors, okay.
So now I have a layer inside of
the style sheet called addme.
What about all of these
styles that are unlayered?
They are still gonna trump
anything inside of addme,
even though addme comes later in this
document according to the cascade.
So what I'm going to do instead,
I'm going to get rid of this first
line of code here with the @import.
I don't need it anymore because
I've just added those styles
to the end of the document.
And I'm going to put in an @layer,
and I'm just gonna call this standard.
These are my standard styles,
they're the ones that I started with.
And I am going to wrap those curly
brackets around all the styles that I
had previously.
So everything down to the layer of addme.
So I've flattened the cascade in a sense,
we no longer have unlayered
styles in this document.
Everything is inside of a layer,
we have a standard layer, and
we have an addme layer.
Right now,
because the addme styles come later,
they are going to take priority, just
like they would inside of CSS normally.
And if we open this up
in a default browser,
you'll see that our text is white, so
that is another possible solution.
But, we could also, what happens if,
for example, there are other things
in here that are conflicting with what
we have in our standard style and so
we decide to put this addme
style earlier in the document.
So I put it before my standard styles,
and I drop it here, and save again.
What color is that text?
The pink declaration is gonna
come later in the document, so
this is gonna show up pink again.
All right, this is the last part of this.
We can specify what layers we want to
have in the order we want them evaluated.
So, now at the very top of the document,
according to the spec this is where you
have to put it, we can say, @layer.
And then I can say, standard, addme;.
So that is an indication to the browser
to evaluate the standard styles first and
the addme styles second, even though
addme is coming first in the document.
And so now when we save this and
we take a look at our web browser,
and we refresh our page,
our style will be white again.
So I've just showed you a whole bunch of
different ways to solve these conflicts.
Just to summarize once again, we have the
use of bang important, which I don't like.
We can copy over one of our layered
styles into our unlayered style so
that it takes effect.
And there's probably downsides to that.
The other possible solution is to include
all of our styles in some kind of layer,
and then indicate
the ordering of those layers.
If we needed to, now I had only kept
all of my addme styles together
in a single layer, we could pull out that
one style and give it its own layer name.
And I'll show you that
here just real quick.
Let's just say that that color
white is the thing that's
driving us bananas,
we could add a layer called difficult,
because these are the styles
that are being difficult for us.
And we could then say we just
want figure a: any-link.
And it's gonna have that color of white.
So now it's broken out into
its own special layer.
We can then say that we addme first,
then we want our
standard layer, and
then we want our difficult layer.
So we can sort these in
whatever order you want.
And if you wanna put the difficult
layer first before addme,
you can totally do that too.
This is the order in which
they will be evaluated.
So now when I save my
style sheet again and
I take a look at this inside of my
web browser, my text is still white.
And that's because I have pulled out
that white color into its own layer.
And I have the cascade set up so
that that is coming last in my
document in a functional sort of way.
So there's many possible solutions
now with layers that give us
the flexibility of bringing in styles
from lots of different sources.
Rewriting our CSS in a whole bunch
of different ways to make sure that
the styling that we want is
applied in the way that we want.
While our brand is still preserved,
even though we're bringing in all kinds of
different styles from all
kinds of different locations.
Layers are really crazy,
they are brand new technology.
I think we're gonna see people
start to explore these,
we'll see more possibilities emerge
as people explore these further.
So watch for blog posts and
such that are gonna be coming out talking
more about this new layer specification.